#------------------------------------------------------------------------
#  Copyright 2008-2009 (c) Jeff Brown <spadix@users.sourceforge.net>
#
#  This file is part of the ZBar Bar Code Reader.
#
#  The ZBar Bar Code Reader is free software; you can redistribute it
#  and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser Public License as
#  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of
#  the License, or (at your option) any later version.
#
#  The ZBar Bar Code Reader is distributed in the hope that it will be
#  useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty
#  of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
#  GNU Lesser Public License for more details.
#
#  You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser Public License
#  along with the ZBar Bar Code Reader; if not, write to the Free
#  Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor,
#  Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
#
#  http://sourceforge.net/projects/zbar
#------------------------------------------------------------------------

=pod

=head1 NAME

Barcode::ZBar::Image - image object to scan for bar codes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Barcode::ZBar;
    
    my $image = Barcode::ZBar::Image->new();
    $image->set_format('422P');
    $image->set_size(114, 80);
    $image->set_data($raw_bits);
    
    my @symbols = $image->get_symbols();

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Barcode::ZBar::Image is used to pass images to the bar code scanner.
It wraps raw image data with the meta-data required to interpret it
(size, pixel format, etc)

=head2 Image Formats

Image data formats are represented by (relatively) standard "Four
Character Codes" (fourcc), represented by four character strings in
Perl.  A list of supported formats is available on the project wiki.

Examples:

=over 2

=item *

'GREY' - single 8bpp intensity plane

=item *

'BGR3' - 24bpp packed RGB component format

=item *

'YUYV' - 12bpp packed luminance/chrominance (YCbCr) format

=back

=head1 REFERENCE

=head2 Methods

=over 4

=item new()

Create a new Barcode::ZBar::Image object.  The size, pixel format and
data must be defined before the object may be used.

=item get_format()

=item set_format(I<format>)

Return/specify the fourcc code corresponding to the image pixel format.

=item get_sequence()

=item set_sequence(I<seq_num>)

Return/specify the video frame or page number associated with the image.

=item get_size()

=item set_size(I<width>, I<height>)

Return/specify the (I<width>, I<height>) image size tuple.

=item get_data()

=item set_data(I<raw>)

Return/specify the raw image data as a binary string.

=item get_symbols()

Return a list of scanned Barcode::ZBar::Symbol results attached to
this image.

=item convert(I<format>)

Return a new Barcode::ZBar::Image object converted to the indicated
fourcc format.  Returns C<undef> if the conversion is not supported.
Conversion complexity ranges from CPU intensive to trivial depending
on the formats involved.  Note that only a few conversions retain
color information.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

Barcode::ZBar, Barcode::ZBar::Image, Barcode::ZBar::Symbol

zbarimg(1), zbarcam(1)

http://zbar.sf.net

=head1 AUTHOR

Jeff Brown, E<lt>spadix@users.sourceforge.netE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2008-2009 (c) Jeff Brown E<lt>spadix@users.sourceforge.netE<gt>

The ZBar Bar Code Reader is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of
the License, or (at your option) any later version.

=cut
